# Updates

Cobra is a language that we (Baily Troyer, Sumya Hoque, Vidur Gupta , Vineeth Vajipey) have designed and implemented for the Programming Languages and Translators course (COMS4115) at Columbia University. 

Currently we have designed our language Cobra, as described in LRM.md. We have begun implementing the compiler, and have designed the Scanner, AST, and Parser for some of the essential language features. Our current code can handle:

- basic arithmetic
- boolean logic
- if statements (almost)

We also decided to use the 🐍 (snake emoji) as our default file extension. 

Note: we have completed the core features to allow most programs to be implemented in our language. Now we are focusing on additional features to make program design faster and easier. 

# Remaining Work

Our remaining work involves completing feature implementation that Cobra offers in the Scanning and Parsing stages, and also implementing IR Generation and Code Optimization. We plan on implementing these features before the end of the semester:

- memory manipulation
- arrays
- function/class definitions
- while loops
- etc. (all features defined in the LRM)

# File Structure

scanner.mll
This file defines the scanner or lexer that tokenizes the characters of the input source code. The other files utilize the tokens generated by the scanner to perform the remainder of the compilation process. 

ast.mli
This file defines the Abstract Syntax Tree (AST) providing a high-level representation of the syntactic structure of the Cobra source code. It defines further abstracted structures using the tokens defined by the scanner.  

parser.mly
The parser defines the grammar of our language. It specifies how to parse the source code or tokens into an AST. Our current parser implements some of Cobra's final feature set, but not all.

cobra.ml
This Ocaml file serves as the executable entry point of the compiler, showcasing the integration of various components of the compiler infrastructure. It uses Scanner.tokenize to break down the raw input into tokens, Parser.expr_root to construct the AST from the tokens, and computes the value of the AST with eval. The environment also tracks the variable states during evaluation. This code was based on the code from HW2.

cobra.🐍
This testbench file serves as a test input to pass through our pipeline. It can be modified before running 'make' and in the case of a successful compilation, the output will be saved to a file called cobra.out.

Makefile
The makefile cleans and runs all the necesarry compilation steps to run the files mentioned above. 
